In order to construct an ARIMA model,
it's important to understand whether and
to what degree autocorrelation
exists in the time series.
Autocorrelation refers to how correlated
a time series is with its past values.
Let's quickly look at an example.
The autocorrelation function plot
show a series correlated with itself,
like by x time units.
So if you take each of the correlation
numbers we just calculated and plotted
them, you'd have the autocorrelation
function plot or ACF plot.
We use this plot to see the correlation
between the points up to, and
including our lag unit.
Looking at the ACF plot
of our toothbrush series,
we see the correlation coefficient
represented in the vertical axis.
Or the number of lag shown
across the horizontal axis.
This will let us know how far out our
time series is correlated with itself.
This series is undifferenced and
has a slow decay toward 0 correlation.
Meaning that the current values are much
more correlated to recent values
than values further in the past.
This suggests that the series
is not stationary and
will need to be differenced
to reach a stationary series.
This plot is for
the same toothbrush sales data set, but
now we've taken the first difference.
You can see that Lag-1 is significant.
However this time the significance
after Lag-1 is much less,
suggesting now a stationary series.
We can now use this plot to help us
determine if we should use AR, MA, or
both components.
And how many lags we should use.
Let's discuss a few things
about selecting AR and
MA components in an ARIMA model.
Generally, the model is sufficient
with either an AR or MA term.
Models that use both
terms are less common.
If the stationarized series has positive
correlation at Lag-1, AR terms are best.
If it has negative correlation at Lag-1,
then MA terms are best.
The decay or cut off of the ACF will
give us hints at what terms to use,
as well as spikes decaying towards 0.
Analyzing the plot we just looked at,
we have a suggestion of an AR 1 model,
because after we stationarize
the data set through differencing,
there was positive autocorrelation at
Lag-1 and a spikes decay towards 0.
Now these are some useful tips, but the
process of selecting the model manually
will likely involve several rounds of
differencing, reviewing plots, and
comparing models.
More advanced statistical
tools like all tricks,
handle this process automatically,
which we'll touch on later.
Now that we've looked at possible AR and
MA terms from the ACF,
we can look to the partial
autocorrelation function plot, or PACF,
to better confirm our findings.